post: Git rebase exec (#116)
cloudx-labs/posts: posts/navarroaxel/19.git-rebase-exec.md

---
title: Git rebase exec to validate every commit
published: true
description: How to run unit tests and build tools for every commit when you rebase
tags: 'git, bash, productivity, tooling'
cover_image: ./assets/git-rebase-exec.png
id: 1949938
---

> In the previous post we checked out how the `git rebase` works and how to use the `--interactive` mode to keep your topic branch up-to-date with the target (e.g. `main`). Adding the `exec` command to run the tests and lint tools to check every rebased commit.

Reviewer: I don't understand if this is an enumeration or why the second sentence uses gerund 🤔

Author: ```suggestion
In the previous post we checked out how the `git rebase` works and how to use the `--interactive` mode to keep your topic branch up-to-date with the target (e.g. `main`). Also, how to use the `exec` command into the `git-rebase-todo` file to run custom commands for the rebased commits.
```

Now, let's check how to use`exec` in a short way.

## Exec, exec, exec

> If you need to run the build, tests, or a format tool when you are rebasing because you must guarantee that every commit is a valid commit, you can speed it up using the `git rebase --exec` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to run the build, tests, or any format tool while rebasing because you must guarantee that every commit is valid, you can speed things up using the `git rebase --exec` command.
```

```bash
git rebase main --exec "npm test" --exec "npm run build"
```

> If the command fails 😩 you need to fix your code and then resume the rebase with `git rebase --continue`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the command fails 😩 you will need to fix your code and then resume the rebase with `git rebase --continue`.
```

```bash
git add .
git commit --amend
git rebase --continue
```

### Reschedule failed exec

> If an `exec` command exits with a failure, your rebase will return the control of the shell to you. The `git rebase --continue` will resume the execution but it won't run the failed `exec` again. To avoid this you can use [`--reschedule-failed-exec`](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-rebase#Documentation/git-rebase.txt---reschedule-failed-exec).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an `exec` command exits with a failure, your rebase will return the shell control to you. The `git rebase --continue` command will resume the execution but it won't run the failed `exec` again. To avoid this you can use [`--reschedule-failed-exec`](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-rebase#Documentation/git-rebase.txt---reschedule-failed-exec).
```

```bash
git rebase main --exec "npm test" --exec "npm run build" --reschedule-failed-exec
```

> You can make this the default behavior using the [rebase.rescheduleFailedExec](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-rebase#Documentation/git-rebase.txt-rebaserescheduleFailedExec) setting:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can make this the default behavior by using the [rebase.rescheduleFailedExec](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-rebase#Documentation/git-rebase.txt-rebaserescheduleFailedExec) setting:
```

```bash
git config --global rebase.rescheduleFailedExec true
```

To turn this off when the `rescheduleFailedExec` is globally `true` you should use the `--no-reschedule-failed-exe` flag:

```bash
git rebase main --exec "npm test" --no-reschedule-failed-exec
```

Or, you can unset this globally:

```bash
git rebase --global --unset rebase.rescheduleFailedExec
```

## Conclusion

> When your commits will live on your Git repository forever (e.g. inside the `main` branch) without being squashed (combined into one) it's useful to guarantee the validity of each commit individually. Git provides this `exec` mechanism to automate this process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your commits will live on your Git repository forever (e.g. inside the `main` branch) without being squashed (combined into one) it's useful to guarantee the validity of each commit individually. Git provides this `exec` mechanism to automate this process.
```

> Do you often check the tests and build for every commit of your created pull request? 😉

Reviewer: Is this the correct question? Sounds a bit weird.
This seems better; keep in mind it's a different one though.
```suggestion
How often do you check the tests and build for every commit of your created pull request? 😉
```
